The President: Thank you
very much, everybody.
Thank you very much.
This is an incredible
time for our country.
I would say that our economy
-- and many of you know that
very well -- is doing better
than it ever has done.
Our employment numbers
are the best that they've been,
perhaps ever, but
certainly in recorded history.
Reports just came out
-- best in 44 years.
Black unemployment is the
lowest level in history.
Hispanic unemployment,
Women unemployment,
lowest level in 21 years.
It started at 19, went up
to 20; now it's up to 21.
Very soon it's going
to be in history.
We're doing numbers like
we've never seen,
and we have some of the great
industry leaders here today
who I'm going to be introducing
in a little while, quickly.
And they're going to do so
much with NASA and so many
of the great
things we're doing.
But they understand full
well what's happening.
We've never seen a period
of time like this.
The whole world is looking
up to the United States,
and the United States
is respected again.
There was a period of time
we were not so respected,
not so long ago.
The United States
is respected again.
If I might, I just wanted
to make a brief statement
on immigration and
what's happening.
And I'll say it very honestly
and I'll say it very straight:
Immigration
is the fault,
and all of the problems
that we're having --
because we cannot get them
to sign legislation;
we cannot get them even to the
negotiating table.
And I say it's, very strongly,
the Democrats' fault.
They're obstructing.
They're really
obstructionists.
And they are obstructing.
The United States will not
be a migrant camp and it
will not be a refugee
holding facility.
It won't be.
If you look at what's
happening in Europe,
if you look at what's
happening in other places,
we can't allow that to
happen to the United States --
not on my watch.
For the rest of the world,
you look at everything
that's taking place --
pick up your newspapers
this morning and you see.
We want safety and we want
security for our country.
If the Democrats would sit down
instead of obstructing,
we could have something
done very quickly --
good for
the children,
good for country, good
for the world.
It could take
place quickly.
We could have an
immigration bill.
We could have --
child separation -- we're stuck
with these horrible laws.
They're horrible laws.
What's happening is
so sad -- is so sad.
And it can be taken care
of quickly, beautifully,
and we'll have safety.
This could really be
something very special.
It could be something maybe
even for the world to watch --
just like they're watching
our great economy,
how it's soaring.
They could watch this.
We have the worst
immigration laws
in the entire world.
Nobody has such sad, such
bad, and actually,
in many cases, such
horrible and tough.
You see about child separation;
you see what's going on there.
But just remember, a
country without borders
is not a country at all.
We need borders.
We need security.
We need safety.
We have to take
care of our people.
You take a look at the
death and destruction
that's been caused by
people coming into this country,
without going
through a process.
We want a merit-based
immigration system
so that Boeing and Lockheed and
all of the people -- Grumman --
all of the people
that are here today,
the heads of every company,
so that you can hire people on a
merit-based --
you know they're coming in --
they're people that came on merit,
not based on a
lottery, or not people
that snuck across
the border.
And they could be
murderers and thieves
and so much else.
So, we want a safe
country, and it starts
with the borders.
And that's the way it is.
Now I'd like to --
(Applause.)
-- thank you.
Thank you.
And again, we can do
this very quickly
if the Democrats come
to the table.
Everybody wants to do it.
We want to do it
more than they do.
If they come to the table,
instead of playing politics,
we can do it
very, very quickly.
So welcome to the third meeting
of the National Space Council.
I want to begin by
recognizing our great
Vice President, Mike Pence,
who's been so involved.
And, Mike, I want to thank you
for the incredible commitment
to American
leadership in space.
I also want to thank
Secretary Wilbur Ross,
Secretary Elaine Chao,
Director Mulvaney,
Director Coats,
Administrator Bridenstine --
and congratulations,
wherever you are.
Where is he?
Congratulations.
You better do a good job.
(Laughter.)
I'll say you're fired
in two minutes.
(Applause.)
You have a
lot of support,
and you've loved this right
from the beginning.
Administrator Bridenstine:
Yes, sir.
The President: He
was in Congress.
He did an awfully good job,
but this was his love, right?
Administrator Bridenstine:
Yes, sir.
The President:
So, good luck.
Secretary Wilson, General Dunford,
Undersecretary Thompson,
Deputy Secretary Shanahan,
and Acting Deputy Secretary Grady
for being here today.
We're honored to be joined
by Congressmen Robert Aderholt,
Brian Babin,
and Dana Rohrabacher.
Stand up, Congressmen.
Please.
Thank you.
(Applause.)
And a special welcome to a
strong, powerful, wonderful woman.
Does a great job as governor
of one of my favorite places
in the world, Alabama --
Kay Ivey.
Kay.
(Applause.)
Am I doing
okay in Alabama?
Participant: Yes, sir.
Governor Ivey: I better
do okay in Alabama.
We love Alabama.
I also want to recognize
three true American heroes.
The first woman to command
a Space Shuttle,
the great Eileen Collins.
Stand up, Eileen.
(Applause.)
Great job.
That's a lot of
time in space.
Along with legendary
Apollo astronauts
Jack Schmitt and Buzz Aldrin.
Buzz has been a friend
of mine for a long time.
Jack, thank you very much.
Thank you, great.
(Applause.)
And I also have a list of
some of the CEOs and chairmen
and presidents of these
incredible companies.
Wes Bush, CEO of
Northrup Grumman.
Where's Wes?
Wes, thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Wes.
Gwynne Shotwell, Gwynne?
Stand up, Gwynne.
She'll end up running
for office, right?
(Applause.)
Bob Smith, CEO of Blue Origin,
who's very active.
Thank you, Bob.
I hear you're
doing a great job.
(Applause.)
President and CEO,
United Launch Alliance.
That's a combination of
Boeing and Lockheed
on the Space Launch System, SLS.
I don't like when Boeing
and Lockheed get together
because the pricing only
goes up, but that's okay
in this case.
(Laughter.)
I don't know.
I don't love that stuff.
We're going to have to
talk about that,
your joining those two
companies, oh.
(Laughter and applause.)
Oh, boy.
Look at Dennis.
Dennis is so happy.
I don't like
that stuff, Mike.
(Laughter.)
Marillyn Hewson, who has
done a fantastic job
at Lockheed Martin, Marillyn?
Marillyn -- you have done.
(Applause.)
What do you
think of that merger
for the space -- what
do you think?
Look at them; they're
sitting together.
Oh, Boeing.
(Laughter.)
Oh, it's --
no wonder we don't get
the pricing we want, huh?
Dennis Muilenburg,
friend of mine.
A great guy.
The head of Boeing.
And, boy, have you done a
good job on all fronts --
commercial, military.
Both of you.
What a job
you've both done.
Thank you.
(Applause.)
Stay apart.
Don't get together.
And, you know, just a
great group of other executives
are here
from the top companies.
And it's patriots like you
that are the reason
why America was first in
flight, first to the moon,
and why America will
always be first in space.
You know, before I got
here, it wasn't looking so good.
(Applause.)
Before we
came in, I will tell you,
they didn't have such
big plans for space.
Now they have plans.
And it's great, not only in
terms of jobs and everything else;
it's great for the
psyche of our country.
This morning it came out
that small business
is the most optimistic it's ever
been in the history
of our country.
That's pretty good.
Now, I don't know if
they go back to 1776.
I don't know if they go
back to, you know,
areas of a little bit earlier,
slightly, like by 100 years
or 200 years.
But I will tell you, I
have never seen optimism
like we have right now.
So, it's a very
exciting time.
I want to also say that
when it comes to space,
too often, for too many years,
our dreams of exploration and
discovery were really squandered
by politics and bureaucracy,
and we knocked that out.
So important for our psyche,
what's you're doing.
It's going to be important
monetarily and militarily.
But so important for right
up here -- the psyche.
We don't want China and Russia
and other countries leading us.
We've always led -- we've gone
way far afield for decades now,
having to do
with our subject today.
We're going to be
the leader by far.
We're behind you a
thousand percent.
America's vital interest
in space lost out
to special interests in
Washington, except, of course,
for the senators
and congressmen here.
They would never do it.
Right, Dana?
But all of that
is changing.
We know that.
My administration is
reclaiming America's heritage
as the world's
greatest space-faring nation.
The essence of the
American character
is to explore new horizons and
to tame new frontiers.
But our destiny, beyond
the Earth, is not only
a matter of national identity,
but a matter of national security.
So important for
our military.
So important.
And people don't
talk about it.
When it comes to defending
America, it is not enough
to merely have an American
presence in space.
We must have American
dominance in space.
So important.
Very importantly, I'm
here by directing
the Department of Defense and
Pentagon to immediately begin
the process
necessary to establish
a space force as the sixth
branch of the armed forces.
That's a big statement.
We are going to have the
Air Force and we are going
to have the Space Force
-- separate but equal.
It is going to
be something.
So important.
General Dunford, if you would
carry that assignment out,
I would be very
greatly honored, also.
Where's General Dunford?
General?
Got it?
General Dunford:
We got it.
The President: Let's
go get it, General.
(Applause.)
But that's the importance
that we give it.
We're going to have
the Space Force.
One year ago, I revived
the National Space Council
and put exactly the right
man in charge,
and that's our friend, Mike Pence.
He feels very
strongly about this.
And in December, I signed
a historic directive
that will return Americans to
the moon for the first time
since 1972, if
you can believe that.
(Applause.)
Always remembering
it's about that,
but it's also about
jobs and the economy.
This is a great
thing we're doing.
This time, we will do more
than plant our flag
and leave our footprints.
We will establish a
long-term presence,
expand our economy, and build
the foundation for the eventual
mission to Mars --
which is actually going
to happen very quickly.
And, you know, I've always
said that rich guys
seem to like rockets.
So all of those rich guys that
are dying for our real estate
to launch
their rockets,
we won't charge you too much.
Just go ahead.
If you beat us to Mars,
we'll be very happy
and you'll be even
more famous.
But they do like
-- explain that.
Where's Eric?
They do like rockets,
for some reason, huh?
They like those rockets.
But you know what?
If -- as long as he's
-- as long as it's
an American rich person,
that's good, okay?
(Laughter.)
They can beat us.
(Applause.)
We'll save a
little money,
and they can beat us and we're
taking full credit for it.
Don't worry about it.
(Laughter.)
But we'll be setting
aggressive timelines,
challenging old
ways of doing business,
and we will be
expecting real results.
And we are making our
incredible facilities -- okay
-- available to these
people that have been
doing so incredibly by
themselves on rocketry.
So, you're invited.
The rent won't be high.
I am instructing my
administration to embrace
the budding commercial
space industry.
We are modernizing
out-of-date space regulations.
They're way out of date.
They haven't been changed
in many, many years.
And today we're taking one
more step to unleash
the power of American
ingenuity.
In a few moments, I will
sign a new directive
to federal departments
and agencies.
They will work together
with American industry
to implement a
state-of-the-art framework
for space traffic
management.
But don't let it get too
out of control, please.
We know about what's going
on with a lot of other
rules and regulations.
By the way, we've set the
all-time record in history
of this country in
cutting regulation.
So, when I hear about
that, I get a little bit --
(Applause.)
-- a little bit tenuous.
Be careful.
Don't get too
carried away.
But we have.
We've cut more regulations
than any administration,
whether it's four years,
eight years, or sixteen years,
in one case.
We've cut more regulations
than any other President
in history.
And I actually think that,
along with the massive tax cuts,
I think that the
regulation cutting
may have even had more of an
impact on the economy.
It's been incredible.
We have regulation.
We have a lot
of regulation.
We have good regulation.
But you don't need 20 years
to get rejected
from building a highway.
We can reject you in
two years or one year.
We have it down from
seventeen years,
down to two.
We expect to get
it down to one.
And if it's not good,
we're going to reject.
But it's going to
be a fast rejection.
You're not going to go an
entire lifetime
only to find it's not
going to be built.
Two previous administrations
tried and failed
to develop a system to deal
with congested conditions in orbit.
We are finally going
to get it done.
It's going to happen fast.
One year from now, our
nation will mark
an important milestone in
human history:
half a century since Americans
first stepped off the Eagle
and onto the moon.
That was a big -- that
was a big day, right?
In that magnificent moment,
the American astronaut embodied
the incredible spirit of America:
the confidence of a cowboy,
the skill of a fighter pilot,
the ambition of a scientist,
and the courage of a true,
true, brilliant, tough warrior.
They bounded fearlessly into
the unknown to be there first.
They did the impossible
because they knew that,
together, there is
absolutely nothing
Americans can't do.
When we get together,
there's nobody even close.
Now we are ready to begin
the next great chapter
of American space
exploration.
This is a very
important day.
important gathering.
A new generation of young
people seeks to challenge --
really challenge hard
-- to get their talent
and their skill to work.
And now we're giving them
a forum and a platform
from which they can put
that genius to work.
Legions of welders and metalworkers,
scientists and engineers stand
ready to build a powerful
new rocket and gleaming
new spaceships.
And that goes with all
of the other things
that we're building
in our country.
Our nation of pioneers still
yearns to conquer the unknown,
because we are Americans
and the future belongs
totally to us.
Once more, we will launch
intrepid souls blazing through
the sky and
soaring into the heavens.
Once more, we will summon
the American spirit
to tame the next great
American frontier.
And once more, we will
proudly lead humanity --
and that's what it is,
it's humanity --
beyond the Earth and into those
forbidden skies,
but they will not be
forbidden for long.
You're very
important people.
You have a great,
great contribution.
What you're doing has been
incredible, but it will be
even more incredible --
far more incredible --
because we are giving you
a platform,
the likes of which nobody
has ever been given before.
I am a big believer.
You will go out there
and you will take that frontier,
which is largely
unknown by man or woman,
and you will learn everything
there is to know about it.
And what you're doing is
so important --
remember -- economically,
militarily, scientifically.
In every way, there is
no place like space.
Good luck, General Dunford
and the Joint Chiefs.
I want to wish you a lot
of luck with Space Force.
But that shows how
important it is.
Congratulations on your
tremendous success,
but you're going to have far
more success right now.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you, Mike.
(Applause.)
Okay, everybody.
Here's a big one, right?
Would anybody like
me not to sign this?
(Laughter.)
Is there
anybody in this room?
They would be in big
trouble, I think.
(The directive is signed.)
(Applause.)
Thank you, everybody.
I have a few pens.
Pass them around, okay.
Thank you very
much, everybody.
Congratulations.
Great day.
Thank you.